(DOCSP-29260): Migrate from KMongo (#92)
mongodb/docs-kotlin: source/migrate-kmongo.txt

.. _kotlin-migrate-kmongo:

===================

> Migrate from KMongo

Reviewer: Is Migrate the right word?

This is more a comparison between the two

        val movieDataClass = dataClassCollection.findOneOrNull()
        val movieNameDataClass = movieDataClass.title

        // With Document class
        val documentCollection = database.getCollection<Movie>("movies")
        val movieDocument = documentCollection.findOneOrNull()
        val movieTitleDocument = movieDocument.getString("title")

  .. tab::
    :tabid: KMongo

    You can use data classes and ``Document`` classes to model data in KMongo:

    .. code-block:: kotlin

      // With data class
      data class Movie(val title: String, val year: Int, val rating: Float)

      val collection = database.getCollection<Movie>("movies")
      val movieDataClass = dataClassCollection.findOne()
      val movieNameDataClass = movieDataClass.title

      // With Document class
      val documentCollection = database.getCollection("movies")
      val movieDocument = documentCollection.findOne()
      val movieTitleDocument = movieDocument.getString("title")

Data Serialization
------------------

Both drivers provide support for serializing and deserializing data objects
in Kotlin to and from BSON.

.. tabs::

  .. tab::
      :tabid: {+driver-long+}

>       You can serialize data classes in the Kotlin driver using the ``kotlinx.serialization`` 

Author: Updated

        
        val database = client.getDatabase("test")
        // Get a collection of documents of type Jedi 
        val col = database.getCollection<Jedi>()

      Unlike the MongoDB Kotlin driver, KMongo allows the collection name to be
      inferred from the data class name.

CRUD and Aggregation
--------------------

Both drivers provide support for all MongoDB CRUD APIs and aggregation 
operations.

.. tabs::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: {+driver-long+}

      The MongoDB Kotlin driver also provides functions for all basic CRUD operations:

      .. code-block:: kotlin

        // Insert a document
          val jedi =a Jedi("Luke Skywalker", 19)
          collection.insertOne(jedi)

          // Find a document
          val luke = collection.find(Jedi::name.name, "Luke Skywalker")
          val jedis = collection.find(lt(Jedi::age.name, 30)).toList()

          // Update a document
          val filter = Filters.eq(Jedi::name.name, "Luke Skywalker")
          val update = Updates.set(Jedi::age.name, 20)
          collection.updateOne(filter, update)

          // Delete a document
          val filter = Filters.eq(Jedi::name.name, "Luke Skywalker")

>           collection.deleteOne(filter)

Reviewer 2: S: remove unneeded indentation

Author: Removed

>       Aggregation pipelines can be built using the ``aggregate`` method and the 
>       ``pipeline`` function: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      You can build aggregation pipelines by using the ``aggregate`` method and the 
      ``pipeline`` function: 
```

Reviewer 2: S: In general, change from passive to active second person where possible

Author: Updated

        val results = collection.find<Results>(filter).projection(projection)

      To map a KMongo string query to the Kotlin driver, you can use the ``JsonObject`` class.

      .. code-block:: kotlin

        val query = JsonObject("{\"name\": \"Gabriel Garc\\u00eda M\\u00e1rquez\"}")
        val jsonResult = collection.find(query).firstOrNull()

      For more information, see the following Kotlin driver documentation:

      - :ref:`Builders <kotlin-builders-landing>`
      - :ref:`Documents <kotlin-document-format>` guide
      - `JsonObject <{+api+}/apidocs/bson/org/bson/json/JsonObject.html>`__ API Documentation
      
   .. tab::
      :tabid: KMongo

      With KMongo, you can create queries using property references on the data class 
      that represents objects in a collection and infix operators that the library 
      provides.

      .. code-block:: kotlin

        data class Jedi(val name: String)

        val yoda = col.findOne(Jedi::name eq "Yoda")

        // Compile error (2 is not a String)
        val error = col.findOne(Jedi::name eq 2)

        // Use property reference with instances

>         val yoda2 = col.findOne(yoda::name regex "Yo.*")

Reviewer 2: S: fix indentation

Author: Fixed

      KMongo also supports string queries that let you construct queries with 
      MongoDB Query Language:

      .. code-block:: kotlin

        import org.litote.kmongo.MongoOperator.lt
        import org.litote.kmongo.MongoOperator.match
        import org.litote.kmongo.MongoOperator.regex
        import org.litote.kmongo.MongoOperator.sample

        val yoda = col.findOne("{name: {$regex: 'Yo.*'}}")!! 
        val luke = col.aggregate<Jedi>("""[ {$match:{age:{$lt : ${yoda.age}}}},
                                            {$sample:{size:1}}

>                                         ]""").first()

Reviewer 2: S fix indentation

Reviewer 2: check all code blocks

Author: Fixed

      the relevant package. 

      To write synchronous code:

      .. code-block:: kotlin

          import com.mongodb.kotlin.client.MongoClient 

          // Instantiate your collection
          data class Jedi(val name: String, val age: Int)   
          val uri = "<your-connection-string">
          val mongoClient = MongoClient.create(uri)
          val database = mongoClient.getDatabase("test")
          val collection = database.getCollection<Jedi>("jedi")

          // Synchronous operations
          val jedi =a Jedi("Luke Skywalker", 19)
          collection.insertOne(jedi)

      To write asynchronous coroutine code:

      .. code-block:: kotlin

        import com.mongodb.kotlin.client.coroutine.MongoClient 

        // Instantiate your collection
        data class Jedi(val name: String, val age: Int)   
        val uri = "<your-connection-string">
        val mongoClient = MongoClient.create(uri)
        val database = mongoClient.getDatabase("test")
        val collection = database.getCollection<Jedi>("jedi")

        runBlocking {

          // Async operations
          val jedi =a Jedi("Luke Skywalker", 19)
          collection.insertOne(jedi)

>         }

Reviewer 2: S fix indentation

Author: Fixed

      * - RxJava2
        - | ``org.litote.kmongo:kmongo-rxjava2``

    To write synchronous code with KMongo:

    .. code-block:: kotlin

      import org.litote.kmongo.* 
      
      // Instantiate your collection
      data class Jedi(val name: String, val age: Int)

      val client = KMongo.createClient()
      val database = client.getDatabase("test") 
      val col = database.getCollection<Jedi>() 
      
      // Synchronous operations
      col.insertOne(Jedi("Luke Skywalker", 19))
      val yoda : Jedi? = col.findOne(Jedi::name eq "Yoda")

    To write async coroutine code with KMongo: 

    .. code-block:: kotlin

        import org.litote.kmongo.reactivestreams.*
        import org.litote.kmongo.coroutine.*  

        // Instantiate your collection
        data class Jedi(val name: String, val age: Int)

        val client = KMongo.createClient()
        val database = client.getDatabase("test") 
        val col = database.getCollection<Jedi>() 

        runBlocking {
          
          // Async operations
          col.insertOne(Jedi("Luke Skywalker", 19))
          val yoda : Jedi? = col.findOne(Jedi::name eq "Yoda")

>         }

Reviewer 2: S fix indentation

Author: Fixed
